#  It’s tough though… I’ve been that tough guy as well.
I know many people that are used to say «I’ve got cool ideas for a project» but somehow, they combine those very same conversations with another phrase that doesn’t need to contain the word “but” to be a detractor, that phrase tends to be: «I’m very busy», although some times they plainly introduce the «but…» importance by far, or by fear…..

Their objective is to tell a story that doesn’t make them feel bad, and it isn’t as if I would think they're losers, dumb or incapacitated for not having the result of the project readily available right there, because if they are telling me about their project is because there is trust and the investors I’m in contact with also understand the importance of that trust to show the reality of your trajectory with valor; some of them trust because our long history of collaboration, others simply because they know who I am, my reputation of supporting with the best intentions is known. Not everyone has that problem, but it is extremely common and you shouldn’t beat yourself up in the mirror if you’ve had it.

One of my first challenges to help some of my friends and clients to make progress was helping them understand that tale that slows you down and pollutes your initiative with “future plans”, helping them transform the tale into an internal dialogue that drives you forward. The tale has that negative subliminal charge by accident, it is a subconscious defense mechanism, telling yourself that story that says “this is gonna be cool but it isn’t ready yet”, it is a mechanism devised to leave us all with a positive impression, or we’d like to think so.

I’ve been on that chair too, I’ve been the tough guy who wants to keep it cool but instead is keeping it coal, an arsonist coal who wants to become incandescent and turn into an entrepreneur and set the whole city, country and the world on fire with an idea. We can live a long while telling stories that sustain us floating on an idilic dream of positive impressions, while giving an excessive priority to “maintain” an impecable curriculum. I now know from experience, but at a given time, just by taking a glimpse at the record of great entrepreneurs was enough for me to understand and interiorize that starting up demands risk and audacity to jump onto an adventure that will take you through unusual paths. You’ll see that in the minor of cases: the leaders that started with very little and made it far, have one, two or three thingys that would look clumsy or odd at their résumé for anyone superficial, and let’s face it, people of superficial vision abound.

“Odd” things like dropping off Harvard, having worked as a janitor, quitting Google, being fired from Yahoo or being rejected from several tech companies before founding their own startups… which would later be bought in billions of dollars or valued in several tens of billions and compete with those very same tech giants that previously rejected them as employees at some point, frequently by some Human Resources agent following standard procedure without a profound reasoning. Elements that could’ve productively impacted a company, are often abandoned and their talent wasted to oblivion; if they let it happen…

In my case, the risk started since more than 10 years ago when I left my steady career at a transnational call center where I had begun taking calls and in few months had already risen some positions until I switched from reporting daily to users on the phone to reporting daily to international AT&T executives; some customers for others, keeping the broader picture of the convergence of interests between both worlds. I had become the customer service policy expert, and I was the individual on the crisis management front line at our venue. And even though the experience I acquired in such reputed companies still is hugely useful to me and the lessons learned from the exchange of wisdom with my excellent colleagues still keeps me company and builds an important part of my competencies and skills… in my daydreams floated funky projects at all times, in discord with the path I had taken. One day, I simply decided to live more broadly, and in doing so, in some semi-accidental way I ended up stumbling upon a trigger that led me to the conviction that no matter how short or long youth and life might be: time is way too precious to devote it to anything that wasn’t pursuing my goals and living my dream. Since then, I have developed in the three fields that I am passionate about: cinema, informatics and videogames.

Don’t let your genius die in the shadows, like that song says, which has always seemed defiant to me in the best possible sense, motivating. I’m not saying you should quit immediately and start just out of pleasure and taste for risk itself, extreme sports exist for that purpose where you risk only your own skin for the pleasure of your senses. What I’m saying is that you should dare to start with any time you have, because by daring to face challenges once and again, you’ll be developing a critical taste and sense to solve risky situations, which is very distinct from jumping directly into danger, you’ll develop a special ability to _manage_ risk. An invaluable skill for business and life.

If you are not yet starting up actively, you need to expand your horizons and live more broadly to stumble upon that trigger that makes you go boom inside and drives you, not to chase your dream: to live your dreams. Take your time, but be steadfast. Being incessant sometimes means to simply not take your finger off the line, and not taking the finger off will force you to keep reading everything that feeds your knowledge of the topic in which you have your eyes set on, get experienced allies to enlighten you in as many right directions possible. Don’t take your finger off the line in which you wrote at least that original word that you chose as a name for the project, or that phrase that encapsulates maybe the vision of your company or maybe the mission of your company, which are distinct matters; and it is your job as director of your orchestra to dance within that initially stretch multi-dimensional space that opens between vision and mission in order to open up more dimensions and solve the unknown of what is the next objective to fulfill and thus conquering more space to keep dancing.

I reveal to you, the viable maximum by this channel, so you can have an idea of the “open kimono” philosophy I like to do business with and that I mention from time to time.

My dream of Withonor, Proveron, PMP, PEM, the non-profit communities and with any other initiative in development has been and still is to help my friends, clients, community and associates with all of my experience to boost their businesses and in this way propelling us all, so the magic that was granted to them since way before they were born elevates all of us. If others can do it, so can you.
My advice is to transform your mindset influencing it with a change in your vocabulary: starting in writing and expanding to speech, so that your third dimension lives in acting and this way you learn to dance at any space. So you mutate from saying “it’s tough though…”, and you start saying “eek, it’s gonna be rough!” and you move on to say “dawg, it’s been freaky!” and keep evolving. And if you get to feel a bit ridiculous at first by speaking differently, that’s a good sign, fuck, that’s phenomenal.
My clients know that the only thing required to be part of Withonor or get any other ally that shows respect for your mission in life, is simply to honor that respect and to say yes! With me or any other company that can boost your company. That phone call? Made it! and many more,, that meeting or meetup? attended! and many more,, that email? sent! and many more,, that door? went and knocked on it! and many more,, showing off? maybe a bit, but it's always better to show up! wherever you need to be,, you want adventure? expand the reach of your enterprise! Advent.

This way you’ll transform your ‘know-how’ into that intangible ˆwho knows howˆ that turns into instinct and transcends to the ¨as you well know¨.
And good business people have…
besides good knowledge and good allies:
excellent instincts.
